**Setup**  
**1. Make sure that the directory with the git.exe is in your PATH variable**  

You can edit the path variable in Windows through **Windows Control Panel>System>Advanced System Settings>Environmental Variables**.  Then go to the pane with **System variables** and make sure that "C:\Program Files\Git\bin" is in the list (do not create spaces between items).  The IDE has automatic GitHub integration, but it needs to know where to look for the git executable.  If you have the IDE open, you will have to restart the IDE.  (Note: There's way to specify the location of the git executable within IntelliJ through the Project Settings menu, too.  Adjusting the PATH can be a little confusing, so you could do it this way as an alternative.

**2. Create a New Project**  

Create a brand new Java project.
(_Do not create a new project from version control.  For some reason, that approach doesn't work too well for the simple program structure I have in place for this first project._)

**3. Checkout Project from Version Control**  

In your new project, go to **VCS>Checkout from Version Control>GitHub**.  (_Note: Don't use Git!!!_)  Enter your GitHub username and password (_Note: IntelliJ may offer to protect your passwords with a master password. If you do not want to use a master password, you can leave these fields blank_).

IntelliJ will automatically give you a list of all of your repositories (you may not have any at this point).  For this example, use the following repository:
    `https://github.com/cmhealGT/test-java.git`

**3. Enable GitHub Issues for Tasks**  
We have to do a little setup here, because IntelliJ can use a number of different components to organize tasks.  

  1. From the top toolbar, go to **Tools>Tasks & Contexts>Configure Servers..**
  2. Add a server configuration, select **GitHub**.
  3. Add the username (in practice, this could be any user)
     `cmhealGT`
  4. Add the repository name (in practice, this could be any repository you have access to)
     `test-java`
  5. Push the **Create API token** button.  You may be requested to provide your GitHub login credentials.
  6. Push the **Test** button.  If you have a problem, see me directly and we'll try to work it out.
  7. Press **OK** and you're done.

**4. Open or Create a Task**  
In general, we always want to create branches when we want to implement changes.  The easiest way to do this within IntelliJ is to start a task which will automatically create a branch to solve that problem.  The new branch that we create is a version of the code that is marked as independent of the master branch (or build code).  That way we have a separate place where we can play with code and save code in an interim basis.  When we're done with our changes, we'll merge our changes with the master branch (and then most of the time close the interim branch).
  1. Go to **VCS>Git>Branches..**